README.md, before:

# README

`gcc` playground to quickly test new compilers and features.

## building and running

1. build docker container: `./build_docker.sh`
2. build and run executable: `./run.sh`

## update compiler

1. update base image of Dockerfile (`FROM gcc:<desired version>`)
2. re-build docker container
3. build and run executable

## alternative without docker

Download compiler from pre-build compiler-explorer versions and move the extracted folder to
`/opt/compiler_explorer/`. E.g.

```bash
$ curl -L https://compiler-explorer.s3.amazonaws.com/opt/clang-17.0.1.tar.xz | tar Jx
$ `mkdir /opt/compiler_explorer/`
$ `mv <extracted_compiler> /opt/compiler_explorer/`
```

Many other compilers are available (e.g. `gcc-13.1.0.tar.xz`). A complete list can be obtained as
described [here](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/infra/blob/main/docs/installing_compilers.md).

Build binary with complete path to the downloaded compiler and either link to respective standard
library, or set library path manually when running the program:

```bash
# linking to lib
$ /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/bin/g++ -std=c++23 -L /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/lib64 main.cpp -o main.out && ./main.out
# set library manually
$ /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/bin/g++ -std=c++23 main.cpp -o main.out && export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/lib64/ && ./main.out
```

Commit message:

adding static linking to compilation

README.md, after:

# README

`gcc` playground to quickly test new compilers and features.

## building and running

1. build docker container: `./build_docker.sh`
2. build and run executable: `./run.sh`

## update compiler

1. update base image of Dockerfile (`FROM gcc:<desired version>`)
2. re-build docker container
3. build and run executable

## alternative without docker

Download compiler from pre-build compiler-explorer versions and move the extracted folder to
`/opt/compiler_explorer/`. E.g.

```bash
$ curl -L https://compiler-explorer.s3.amazonaws.com/opt/clang-17.0.1.tar.xz | tar Jx
$ `mkdir /opt/compiler_explorer/`
$ `mv <extracted_compiler> /opt/compiler_explorer/`
```

Many other compilers are available (e.g. `gcc-13.1.0.tar.xz`). A complete list can be obtained as
described [here](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/infra/blob/main/docs/installing_compilers.md).
If the system doesn't satisfy the GLIBC requirement of the compiler (calling the compiler will
fail), compiling in a docker container might be the best option.

Build binary with complete path to the downloaded compiler and either link to respective standard
library, or set library path manually when running the program:

```bash
# linking to lib
$ /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/bin/g++ -std=c++23 -L /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/lib64 -static main.cpp -o main.out && ./main.out
# set library manually
$ /opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/bin/g++ -std=c++23 main.cpp -o main.out && export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/compiler_explorer/gcc-13.1.0/lib64/ && ./main.out
```
